Filter functions (#39)
SAP/cloud-sdk: docs/java/features/odata/type-safe-client-odata-v2.mdx

<!-- TODO: Explain filters on complex types and navigational properties -->

> Please, check what filter options are supported by [OData v2 standard](https://www.odata.org/documentation/odata-version-2-0/uri-conventions/). Search for: **4.5. Filter System Query Option ($filter)** after navigation to the link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend to check what filter options are supported by [OData v2 standard](https://www.odata.org/documentation/odata-version-2-0/uri-conventions/). Search for: **4.5. Filter System Query Option ($filter)** after navigation to the link.
```

> We recommend to check what filter options are supported by [OData v2 standard](https://www.odata.org/documentation/odata-version-2-0/uri-conventions/). Search for: **4.5. Filter System Query Option ($filter)** after navigation to the link.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We recommend to check what filter options are supported by [OData v2 standard](https://www.odata.org/documentation/odata-version-2-0/uri-conventions/). 
Search for: **4.5. Filter System Query Option ($filter)** after navigation to the link.
```

The SDK currently has support for the following filtering functions in OData v2 client:

| Filter name           | Filter function | Example ODava v2 query string                |
|-----------------------|-----------------|----------------------------------------------|
| Equals                | `eq`            | /Suppliers?$filter=Address/City eq 'Redmond' |
| No Equals             | `ne`            | /Suppliers?$filter=Address/City ne 'London'  |
| Less than             | `lt`            | /Products?$filter=Price lt 20                |
| Greater than          | `gt`            | /Products?$filter=Price gt 20                |
| Greater than or equal | `ge`            | /Products?$filter=Price ge 10                |
| Less than or equal    | `le`            | /Products?$filter=Price le 100               |

:::note  "Header"

> We are working on supporting string filtering function like `SubstringOf`, `endsWith`, `startsWith`, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are working on supporting string filtering function like `substringOf`, `endsWith`, `startsWith`, etc.
```

> We are working on supporting string filtering function like `SubstringOf`, `endsWith`, `startsWith`, etc.

Reviewer 3: Support for this is already implemented

:::

> For more details check our [API documentation](https://help.sap.com/doc/b579bf8578954412aea2b458e8452201/1.0/en-US/com/sap/cloud/sdk/datamodel/odata/helper/package-summary.html) or use `autocomplete` function of your IDE to see available methods of the provided Fluent API.

Reviewer: I would directly refer to the Javadoc of the class "EntityField" (https://help.sap.com/doc/b579bf8578954412aea2b458e8452201/1.0/en-US/com/sap/cloud/sdk/datamodel/odata/helper/EntityField.html) as it contains the list of supported filter functions.

Reviewer 3: Agreed, and I would do the same for OData V4.

Reviewer 3: e.g. https://help.sap.com/doc/b579bf8578954412aea2b458e8452201/1.0/en-US/com/sap/cloud/sdk/datamodel/odatav4/expression/FilterableValue.html

<!--
### Count ###
-->

### Batch Requests

> Batch requests allow wrapping multiple OData requests into one single batch call. Thereby we reduce the number of roundtrips to the remote server. Refer to the [official OData V2 spec](https://www.odata.org/documentation/odata-version-2-0/batch-processing/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Batch requests allow wrapping multiple OData requests into one single batch call to reduce the number of roundtrips to the remote server. 
Refer to the [OData v2 standard](https://www.odata.org/documentation/odata-version-2-0/batch-processing/).
```
